# Number Theory

## Some problems:

1. How many primes? Infinite
2. Formula for the nth prime? [Unsolved] | pi(n)
3. Infinite many primes pf the form $4k+1$? Yes (Hilbert number)
4. Infinite many primes of the form $n^2 + 1$? [Unsolved] | Yes (log_2(n^2 + 1) = log_2(p) | p exist)
5. Infinite many twin primes, $(p, p+2)$? [Unsolved] | Yes
6. Goldbach, $n = p_1+p_2$, n is even, (1742)? [Unsolved] 
7. $x^m - y^n = 1$, solve for integer $x, y, (m, n>1)$. Ex. $3^2 - 2^3 = 1$, any other solution? No. (The Catalan conjugation)
8. Fermat theorem? Yes
9. Fermat last theorem, are there solutions in positive integers to $x^n + y^n = z^n, n>2$ ? No
10. S = (a,b,c) 直角三角形的面积是整数，三边也是整数? [Unsolved]


### Charpeter 1

Def. 1.1 Divide Let a, b be integers, $a | b$ (a can divide b), e.g. $3\nmid7$, $1\mid n$, $2\mid 4$.

Thm.
1. $a\mid b \Longrightarrow a\mid bc$ for any integer c
2. $a\mid b, b\mid c \Longrightarrow a\mid c$
3. ***[important] $a\mid b, a\mid c \Longrightarrow a\mid (bx+cy)$
4. $a\mid b, b\mid a \Longrightarrow a = \pm b$
5. $a\mid b, a>0, b>0 \Longrightarrow a \leq b$
6. $m \neq 0 \Longrightarrow am\mid bm$

Thm.
Division alg. Exist & Unique: $b = aq + r, 0 \leq r < a, a > 0$

Proof:

Exist: Consider $\{…, b-2a, b-a, b, b+a, b+2a, …\}$, let r be the least non-negative integer in this list. (If $r > a$, then consider $r - a$, repeat it to the least one), then $0 \leq r = b - qa$ for some q.

Unique: Consider [$r_1 = b - aq_1$ and $r_2 = b -aq_2$, … $\Longrightarrow$ $q_1 = q_2$ & $r_1 = r_2$], $aq_1 + r_1 = aq_2 + r_2 \Longrightarrow r_1 - r_2 = a(q_1 - q_2)$ $\Longrightarrow$ $a\mid (r_1-r_2)$, this is not possible. contradiction.

Def. 1.2. GCD. $\gcd(a,b)$ is the (unique positive integer) great common divisor of a, b. (Unique positive integer g s.t. $g\mid a$ & $g\mid b$ & g is the greatest one (for any c, if $c\mid a$ & $c\mid b$ then $c \leq g$).)

Ex. 1. $\gcd(a,0) = |a|, a \neq 0$; 2. $\gcd(0,0) = ?$ (No sense)

### Coprime:
$\gcd(a,b) = 1$, then a, b is `coprime`.

Thm.

Let b, c be integers, then exist $x, y \in \Z$, s.t. $\gcd(b,c) = bx_0+cy_0$ (integer combination)
Proof: consider $\{bx+cy \mid x, y \text{ range over } \Z\}$, let $L$ be the `least positive integer` in this set, $L = bx_0 + cy_0$.

Claim1: $L \mid b,\ L \mid c$

Claim2: $\gcd(b,c) = L$

Prove claim1: let $r\in\text{ this set}$, $r = b - qL = b - q(bx_0+cy_0)$, reduce to the least one, then $r \mid b$, same for $r \mid c$.

Prove claim2: let $g = \gcd$, since $L = bx_0+cy_0$, then $g \mid L$, but $g$ is the greatest, then $L$ is the greatest.

Thm.
The gcd of $b, c$ can be characterized by 2 ways:
1. It is the least positive integer of the form: $bx+cy, x,y \text{ range over } Z$.
2. It is the positive common divisor of $b, c$, that is divisible by every common divisor. [$a\mid b, a\mid c \Longrightarrow a \leq \gcd(b,c) = g (eqv: a \mid g)$]

2021-09-07
Hand in hw, 2th week 4.
