## Partial Differential Equation

别名：数学物理方法？？

## Chapter1 Introduction

Ex. 人口增长模型 (ODE)：

$${d\over dt}u(t) = k\ u(t)$$

which $k$ is fixed positive constant.

Ex. Heat Equation (PDE)
$${\partial \over \partial t}u(x,y,z,t)=k({\partial^2\over\partial x^2}u(x,y,z,t) + {\partial^2\over\partial y^2}u(x,y,z,t) + {\partial^2\over\partial z^2}u(x,y,z,t))$$

which $k$ is some fixed positive constant.


### Def. [PDE | 偏微分方程]
An equation involving partial derivatives of an unknow function.

General form:
$$F(x, u, {\partial u\over \partial x_1}, {\partial u\over \partial x_2}, \cdots, {\partial u\over \partial x_n}, \cdots, {\partial^r u\over \partial x_n^r})$$
which $x=(x_1, x_2, x_3, \cdots)$, $u = u(x)$.

Ex. 泊松方程 (n=2)
$${\partial^2 u\over \partial x^2}u(x,y) + {\partial^2 u\over \partial y^2}u(x,y) = f(x,y)$$
简记：
$$L = {\partial^2 u\over \partial x^2} + {\partial^2 u\over \partial y^2}$$
then we say that $L[u] = f$, $f$ is called `资源项`

### Def. Order 次
最高次的项的次为方程的次

### Prop. [Linearity | 线性性]
| Note: [我们大部分时间都研究线性的、最高二次的方程]

PDE is linear if the equation $L$ satisfies:

$$L[\alpha_1 u_1 + \alpha_2 u_2] = \alpha_1 L[u_1] + \alpha_2 L[u_2]$$
$\forall \alpha_1, \alpha_2$ constants and $u_1, u_2$ functions.

Ex. Heat Equation is linear.

Ex. $u_t - uu_x = 0$ is not linear.

Proof: 
$$L[u+v] = (u+v)_t + (u+v)(u+v)_x=...$$

### Prop. [Homogeneity | 齐次性]

If $L$ is linear & $f\equiv 0$, we say this PDE is homogeneity.

### Prop. [Addition Principle | 叠加原理]
If two (finite many) eq. are linear and homogenity, then the sum is also linear and homogenity.

Proof: ...

Ex. Transport Equation (运输方程)
$$u_t + Vu_x = 0$$
where $V$ is some fixed constant ($\neq 0$), which is 1st order, linear & homo.

Ex. Wave Equation (波动方程)
$$u_{tt} - c^2u_{xx} = A\sin t$$
where $A$ is some fixed constant ($\neq 0$), 2nd order, linear, but not homo. $L={\partial^2\over \partial t^2}-{\partial^2\over \partial x^2}$

Ex. Laplace Equation (拉普拉斯方程)
$$u_{xx}+u_{yy} = 0$$
2nd order, linear & homo.

Ex. Diffusion Convection Equation (扩散对流方程)
$$u_t + uu_x -ku_{xx} = 0$$
2nd order, but non-linear.

### General Solutions, Initial & boundary conditions.
Recall ODE: $y=ce^{rt}$ is the general solution.

Recall the Transport Equation (运输方程):
$$u_t + Vu_x = 0$$
Physical Mean: $u$: the density of a substance in a 1D medium (e.g. river) that moves with constant velocity $V$.

Let $u(x,t)=\phi (x-Vt)$ where $\phi$ is an arbitary smooth function, then $\phi(x-Vt)$ is always a sol. of the eq. above.

General Solution:

we call the `general sol.` of above eq. is $u(x,t) = \phi(x-Vt)$.

Initial Condition: (Time)
$$\begin{aligned}
\left\{ \begin{array}{ll} u_t + Vu_x = 0 \\
u(x,0)={1\over 1+x^2} \end{array} \right.
\quad x\in \R, t\in [0, +\infty)
\end{aligned}$$

since $u(x,t)=\phi(x-Vt)$, then $\phi(x) = {1\over 1+x^2}, x\in \R$
...

Boundary Condition: (Space)

$x\in \R$...

(? some case: find a weak solution, and prove the smooth prop. then that is a solution.)

### Classification of 2nd order Linear PDE with 2 varibles.

Ex. Poisson Equation
$$u_{xx} + u_{yy} = f(x,y)$$

consider: $x^2 + y^2 = 1$ is a 椭圆方程.

Ex. Wave Equation
$$u_{xx}-u_{yy}=f(x,y)$$

consider: $x^2 - y^2 = 1$ is a 双曲方程. [速度是有限的，比如光速，爱因斯坦引力波方程]

Ex. Heat Equation
$$u_t - u_{xx} = f(t,x)$$

consider: $t - x^2 = 1$ is a 抛物方程. [传播是即时的，比如牛顿力学]

### Thm. 
$$a_{11} u _{xx} + 2a_{12}u_{xy} + a_{22}u_{yy} + b_1 u_x + b_2 u_y + u = f(x,y)$$
a general eq. (2nd order & 2 varibles PDE) can transform from $(x,y)$ to $(x_1,y_1)$ (坐标系变换), then the new eq. must be one of the 3 class of above (椭圆, 双曲, 抛物).

Continue the eq. above. Fix a pointwise point $p$, want to find a linear transformation of varibles:

index form:
$$y_i = \sum_{j=1}^2 b_{ij}x_j,\quad i=1,2$$

$$u_{x_k x_i}=\sum_{i,j=1}^2 u_{y_iy_j} b_{ik}b_{jl}$$

$$\sum_{k,l=1}^2 u_{x_kx_l}a_{kl} = ...$$
...

matrix form:
$$C = BAB^T,\quad A=(a_{ij}),...$$

since $A$ is ral symetric, then exist orthogonal matrix $B$ s.t. $BAB^T$ is diagonal, i.e. $(\begin{matrix}\lambda_1\ 0 \\ 0\ \lambda_2\end{matrix})$.

Now consider the form of eq. becomes $\lambda_1 u_{y_1y_1} + \lambda_2 u_{y_2y_2}$.

Case 1: $det(A) > 0$: ... is 椭圆？
Case 2: ...


