## 2020/01/11

### Complex Differentiable
If
$$
\lim_{h\to 0} \frac{f(x+h)-f(x)}{h}
$$
exists, we say $f$ is complex differentiable.

If $f$ is complex differentiable at every point of $\Omega$, we say that f is complex differentiable on $\Omega$.

局部是解析的：可写成绝对收敛的幂级数
$\Omega$ is a domain, if $\Omega \to \mathbb C$.

* How to extend a power series on open disk to larger domain?
每一个点取一个邻域，考虑邻域的边界条件如何将其连接起来

### Remark
$f$ analytic on $\Omega \to \mathbb C$, complex differentiable on $\Omega$ based on the fact
$$
\sum a_n (z,z)^n,\ a_n \in \mathbb C
$$
取半径为
$$
R=\frac{1}{\limsup \bar{|a_n|}}
$$
Then the power series absolutely convergent on $B(Z,R)$, and complex diff. ...

### Properties
$f$ is complex differentiable $\Rightarrow$ $f$ analytic as a seq. $f$ complex differentiable for infinitely many times (无限次可微)

(?再仔细瞅瞅wiki)

Recall: 实函数的可微：
$$
\Phi : \Omega(open \in \mathbb R^n) \to \mathbb R^m
$$
$\phi$ is diff, at $x\in \Omega$ if there exists a linear map $L: \mathbb R^n \to \mathbb R^m$, s.t.
$$
f(x+h)=f(x)+L(h)+R(h)
$$

###
$f$ is complex differentiable means:
$$
f(z_0) = \lim_{h\to 0} {f(z_0+h)-f(z_0) \over h}
$$
Consider two parts of $(x,y) = z$, and $(h_1,h_2)=h$. we have:
$$
\begin{aligned}
&=\lim_{h_1\to 0, h_1\in \mathbb R}{u(x_0+h_1,y+0)+iv(x_0+h_1,y_0)-(u(x_0,y_0)+iv(x_0,y_0))\over h_1}
\\&={\partial u\over \partial x} |_{(x,y_0)} + i{\partial v\over \partial x} |_{(x,y_0)}
\end{aligned}
$$
same as other part for $y$.

柯西黎曼方程: (Cauchy-Riemann equations)
f is diff.
$$
\begin{aligned}
{\partial\over \partial z} = {1\over z}({\partial\over \partial x}+{1\over i}{\partial\over \partial y})
\\
{\partial\over \partial z} = {1\over z}({\partial\over \partial x}-{1\over i}{\partial\over \partial y})
\end{aligned}
$$
then the equation is $
{\partial f\over \partial z}|_{z_0}=0$

See more: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holomorphic_function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holomorphic_function)

keywords: $\bar\partial - equation$

### Lemma
$f: \Omega\to \mathbb C$,
1. $f$ is a complex diff. at $z_0=x_0+iy_0 \in \Omega$, if $f$ is real diff. at $(x_0,y+0)$ with partial derivatives satisfying
$$
\begin{aligned}
{\partial u\over \partial x}|_{(x,y_0)} = {\partial v\over \partial y}|_{(x,y_0)}
\\
{\partial u\over \partial y}|_{(x,y_0)} = -{\partial v\over \partial x}|_{(x,y_0)}
\end{aligned}
$$

2. If ${\partial u\over \partial x}$, ${\partial u\over \partial y}$, ${\partial v\over \partial x}$, ${\partial v\over \partial y}$ exists in an open neigborhod at $(x_0,y_0)$ and conti. at $(x_0,y_0)$ with partial diff. then $f$ is complex diff. at $(x_0,y_0)$.

3. If $f$ is complex diff. on $\Omega$ with partial diff. satisfying
$$
\begin{aligned}
{\partial u\over \partial x}|_{(x,y_0)} = {\partial v\over \partial y}|_{(x,y_0)}
\\
{\partial u\over \partial y}|_{(x,y_0)} = -{\partial v\over \partial x}|_{(x,y_0)}
\end{aligned}
$$
then $f$ is complex diff. on $\Omega$.

### Remark1
$f$ is complex diff. means that near $z_0$ (in the disk of $N_{(z_0)}$)
$$
f(z) = f(z_0)+f(z_0)(z-z_0)+R(z-z_0)
$$
This leads to Cauchy Integral Formula.

一个函数在局部圆盘上的值，取决于其一维的 boundary，这是个很神奇的现象——老师说

### Remark2
If $f: \Omega\to\mathbb C$, if $f$ is continuous and partial derivatives ${\partial f\over \partial x}$, ${\partial f\over \partial y}$ exists everywhere satisfying ${\partial f\over \partial x} = -{\partial f\over \partial y}$, then $f$ is complex diff. on $\Omega$.

(Proof. by Lumen Menchoff. 比较复杂的证明)

###
How we do calculates:
1. 原函数：$f:\Omega\to\mathbb C$, can we integration to recover $f(\Omega)$ from $f^\prime(\Omega)$?

考虑一个点到另一个点的线积分 on $\gamma$，我们需要验证验证这个积分是否和路径的选择有关。

If $\int_\gamma f dz$ not depend on the choose of $\gamma$, then we can define $F(z) = \int_\gamma f^\prime(z)dz$.

:: $f$ is holomorphic, then 任意的三角路径积分为 0 on $\Omega$ $\Longleftrightarrow$ $f$ is holomorphic complex diff.. (充分必要条件，nice)

See more: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holomorphic_function [Properties]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holomorphic_function)
