## Generation of Modules & Direct Sums & Free Modules

### Def. [Generation]
Let $M$ be an $R$-module and $N_1,...,N_n$ be submodules of $M$.
1. The `sum` of $N_1,...,N_n$ is the set of all finite sums of elements from the sets $N_i$, i.e., $\sum a_i$, where $a_i\in N_i$. Denote this sum by $N_1+\cdots+N_n$.
2. For any subset $A$ of $M$ let
   $$
   RA=\{r_1a_1 + r_2a_2 + \cdots + r_ma_m \ |\ r_i \in R, a_i \in A, m\in \Z^+\}
   $$
   If $A$ is the finite set $\{a_1,a_2,...,a_n\}$, we shall write $Ra_1 + Ra_2 + \cdots + Ra_n$ for $RA$. Call $RA$ `the submodule of` $M$ `generated by` $A$. If $N$ is a submodule of $M$, and $N=RA$ for some subset $A$ of $M$, we call $A$ a `set of generators of generating set` for $N$, and we say $N$ is generated by $A$.
3. A submodule $N$ of $M$ is `finitely generated` if there is some finite subset $A$ of $M$ s.t. $N=RA$. That is, if $N$ is generated by some finite subset.
4. A submodule $N$ of $M$ is `cyclic` if there exists an element $a\in M$ s.t. $N=Ra$, that is, $N$ is generated by one element, i.e., $N=Ra=\{ra\ |\ r\in R\}$.

Note: These definitions do not require that the ring $R$ contain a $1$, however this condition ensures that $A$ is contained in $RA$.

It is easy to see that for any subset $A$ of $M$, $RA$ is indeed a submodule of $M$ and is the smallest submodule of $M$ contains $A$ (i.e., any submodule of $M$ contains $A$ must contain $RA$).

In particular, for submodules $N_1,...,N_n$ of $M$, $N_1+\cdots+N_n$ is just the submodule generated by the set $N_1\cup \cdots\cup N_n$, and is the smallest submodule of $M$ containing $N_i$ for all $i$. If $N_1,...,N_n$ are generated by sets $A_1,...,A_n$ respectively, then $N_1+\cdots+N_n$ is generated by $A_1\cup \cdots\cup N_n$.

A submodule $N$ of an $R$-module $M$ may have many different generating sets (for instance, the set $N$ itself always generates $N$). If $N$ is finitely generated, then there is a smallest nonnegative integer $d$ s.t. $N$ is generated by $d$ elements. Any generating set consisting of $d$ elements will be called a `minimal set of generators` for $N$ (which is not unique in general). If $N$ is not finitely generated, it need not have a minimal generating set. (每个module可以有很多不同的生成子集，如果module是有限的，则有最小生成子集；有限生成才有最小的生成子集，无限的则不要求这个性质)

The process of generating submodules of an $R$-module $M$ by taking subsets $A$ of $M$ and forming all finite "$R$-linear combinations" of elements of $A$ will be our primary way of producing submodules (like taking the `span` of $A$ in vector space).

The obstruction which made the analogous process so difficult for groups in general was the noncommutativity of group operations. For abelian groups, $G$, however, it was much simpler to control the subgroup $\langle A \rangle$ generated by $A$, for a subset $A$ of $G$. This situation for $R$-modules is similar to that of abelian groups (even if $R$ is non-commutative ring) because we can always collect "like terms" in elements of $A$, i.e., terms such as $r_1a_2 + r_2a_2 + s_1a_1$ can always be simplified to $(r_1+s_1)a_1+r_2a_2$. (因为加法是$M$的群性质传递过来的，$r$与$s$之间的加法不一定需要（R的）交换性质) . This again reflects the underlying abelian group structure of modules.

### Examples

1. Let $R=\Z$ and $M$ be any $R$-module (any abelian group). If $a\in M$, then $\Z a$ is just the cyclic subgroup of $M$ generated by $\langle a \rangle$. More generally, $M$ is generated as a $\Z$-module by a set $A$ if and only if $M$ is generated as a group by $A$ (That is, the action of ring elements in this instance produces no elements that cannot already be obtained from $A$ by addition and subtraction). The definition of finitely generated for $\Z$-modules is identical to that for abelian groups (found in Chapter 5).
2. Let $R$ be a ring with $1$, $M$ be the (left) $R$-module $R$ itself. Note that $R$ is a finitely generated, in fact cyclic, $R$-module because $R=R1$ (i.e., we can tak $A=\{1\}$). Recall that the submodules of $R$ are precisely the left ideals of $R$, so saying $I$ is a cyclic $R$-submodule of the left $R$-module $R$ is the same as saying $I$ is a principal ideal of $R$ (usually the term "principal ideal" is used in the context of commutative rings). Also, saying $I$ is a finitely generated $R$-submodule of $R$ is the same as saying $I$ is a finitely generated ideal. When $R$ is a commutative ring, we often write $AR$ or $aR$ for the submodule (ideal) generated by $A$ or $a$ (like $n\Z$). Thus a Principal Ideal Domain is a (commutative) integral domain $R$ with identity in which every $R$-submodule of $R$ is cyclic.
   
   Submodules of a finitely generated module need not be finitely generated. Take $M$ to be the cyclic $R$-module $R$ itself where $R$ is the polynomial ring in infinitely many variables $x_1,x_2,...$ with coefficients in some field $F$. The submodule generated by $\{x_1,x_2,...\}$ cannot be generated by any finite set. ??? 这说明了个啥？
3. Let $F$ be a field, let $x$ be an indeterminate, let $V$ be a vector space over $F$ and $T$ be a linear transformation from $V$ to $V$ itself. Make $V$ into an $F[x]$-module via $T$. Then $V$ is a `cyclic` $F[x]$-module (with generator $v$) if and only if $V=\{p(x)v | p(x) \in F[x]\}$. That is if and only if every element of $V$ can be written as an $F$-linear combination of elements of the set $\{T^n(v) | n\geq 0\}$. This in turn is equivalent to saying $\{v,T(v), T^2(v),...\}$ span $V$ as a vector space over $F$.
   
   For instance, if $T$ is the identity linear transformation from $V$ to $V$ or the zero linear transformation, then for every $v\in V$ and $p(x)\in F[x]$ we have $p(x)v=\alpha v$ for some $\alpha \in F$. Thus if $dim(V) >1$, $V$ cannot be a cyclic $F[x]$-module.

   For another example, suppose $V$ is affine $n$-space and $T$ is the `shift operator`. Let $e_i$ be the $i^{th}$ basis vector numbered so that $T$ is defined by $T^k(e_n) = e_{n-k}$ for $1\leq k < n$. Thus $V$ is spanned by the elements $e_n,T(e_n),...,T^{n-1}(e_n)$, that is, $V$ is a cyclic $F[x]$-module with generator $e_n$. For $n >1$, $V$ is not, however, a cyclic $F$-module (i.e., not 1 dimensional vector space over $F$).

   ### Def. [Direct Product]
   Let $M_1,...,M_k$ be a collection of $R$-modules. The collection of $k$-tuples $(m_1,...,m_k)$ where $m_i \in M_i$ with addition and action of $R$ defined componentwise is called the `direct product` of $M_1,...,M_k$, denoted $M_1 \times \cdots \times M_k$.

   ### Prop 5.
   Let $N_1,N_2,...,N_k$ be submodules of the $R$-module $M$. Then the following are equivalent:
   1. The map $\pi: N_1\times N_2 \times \cdots \times N_k \to N_1 + N_2 + \cdots + N_k$ defined by 
      $$
      \pi(a_1,a_2,...,a_k) = a_1 + a_2 + \cdots + a_k
      $$
      is an isomorphism (of $R$-modules): $N_1\times N_2 \times \cdots \times N_k \cong N_1 + N_2 + \cdots + N_k$

   2. $N_j \cap (N_1+N_2+\cdots + N_k)_{without\ j} = 0$ for all $j$.
   3. Every $x\in N_1 + N_2 + \cdots + N_k$ can be written uniquely in the form $a_1 + a_2 + \cdots + a_k$ with $a_i \in N_i$.

If an $R$-module $M=N_1+N_2+\cdots+N_k$ is the sum of submodules $N_1,N_2,...,N_k$ of $M$ satisfying the equivalent conditions of the proposition above, then $M$ is said to be the (internal) direct sum $N_1,N_2,...,N_k$, written
$$M=N_1 \oplus N_2\oplus \cdots\oplus N_k$$
By the proposition, this is equivalent to assertion that every element $m$ of $M$ can be written *uniquely* as a sum of elements $m=n_1 + n_2 + \cdots + n_k$ with $n_i \in N_i$.

### Def. [Free Module]

An $R$-module $F$ is said to be `free` on the subset $A$ of $F$ for every nonzero element $x\in F$, there exist unique nonzero elements $r_1,r_2,...,r_n\in R$, and unique $a_1,a_2,...,a_n\in A$, s.t. $x=\sum r_i a_i$. In this situation we say $A$ is a `basis` or `set of free generators` for $F$. If $R$ commutes, the cardinality of $A$ is called the `rank` of $F$.

Notice: The unique is required for both $F$ and $R$. Example: If $R=\Z$, $N_1 = N_2 = \Z/2\Z$, then each element of $N_1\oplus N_2$ has unique representation in the form $n_1+n_2$. However, $n_1$ can be expressed as $n_1,3n_1,5n_1,...$, so each element does not have a unique representation in the form $r_1a_1 + r_2a_2$ for $r_i \in R$. Thus, $N_1 \oplus N_2$ is not a free $\Z$-module on the set $\{(1,0),(0,1)\}$ (in fact, it is not free on any set).

### Theorem 6. [F(A)'s Universal Property]

For any set $A$, there is a free $R$-module $F(A)$ on the set $A$ and $F(A)$ satisfies the following `universal property`:

If $M$ is any $R$-module and $\varphi: A\to M$ is any map of sets, then there is a unique $R$-module homomorphism $\phi: F(A) \to M$ s.t. $\phi(a)=\varphi(a)$ for all $a\in A$. (Commutative Diagram 画不出来，省略，见书 354 页)

When $A$ is the finite set $\{a_1,a_2,...,a_n\}$, $F(A)=Ra_1 \oplus Ra_2 \oplus \cdots \oplus Ra_n \cong R^n$.

Remark:

If $F$ is a free $R$-module with basis $A$, we shall often (particularly in the case of vector spaces) define $R$-module homomorphisms from $F$ into other $R$-modules simply by specifying their values on the elements of $A$, and then saying "extend by linearity". (homomorphism只需要定义在基上，然后线性扩张一下就行)

When $R=\Z$, the free module on a set $A$ is called the `free abelian group` on $A$. If $|A|=n$, $F(A)$ is called the free abelian group of `rank` $n$ and is isomorphic to $\Z\oplus\cdots\oplus\Z$ ($n$ times).
