## Ring

### Examples

1. `Trivial Rings`: Take $R$ be any commutative group, define multipication by $a\times b=0$ for all $a,b\in R$. If $R=\{0\}$, trivial group, we call it `zero ring`, denoted $R=0$.

2. `Integers` $\Z$: Identity $1$ for addition and multiplication. Note that $\Z - \{0\}$ under multiplication is not a group.

3. `Rational Numbers` $\mathbb Q$, `Real Numbers` $\mathbb R$, `Complex Numbers` $\mathbb C$: Identity: $0$ for addition, $1$ for multiplication.

4. `Quotient Group` $\Z / n\Z$: Identity $\bar 1$ for addition and multiplication of residue classes.

5. `The (real) Hamilton Quaternions` (The first discovered noncommutative ring, 1843 by Sir William Rowan Hamilton). Let $\mathbb H$ be the collection of elements of the form $a+bi+cj+dk$ where $a,b,c,d\in \R$ are real numbers (loosely, "polynomials in $1,i,j,k$ with real coefficients") where addition is defined "componentwise" by 
  $$
(a+bi+cj+dk)+(a^\prime+b^\prime i+c^\prime j+d^\prime k) \\= (a+a^\prime)+(b+b^\prime) i+(c+c^\prime) j+(d+d^\prime)k
$$
and multiplication is defined by expanding $(a+bi+cj+dk)(a^\prime+b^\prime i+c^\prime j+d^\prime k)$ using distributive law, and simplifying using the relations
$$
i^2=j^2=k^2=-1,\quad ij=-ji=k,\\jk=-kj=i,\quad ki=-ik=j
$$

6. `Functions`: Let $X$ be any nonempty set and let $A$ be any ring. The collection, $R$, of all (set) functions $f:X\to A$ is a ring under the usual definition of pointwise addition and multiplication of functions: $(f+g)(x)=f(x)+g(x)$ and $(fg)(x)=f(x)g(x)$.

7. `Non-Identity` $2\Z$.

### Proposition 1

Let $R$ be a ring, then

1. $0a=a0=0$
2. $(-a)b=a(-b)=-(ab)$
3. (-a)(-b)=ab$
4. if $R$ has identity $1$, then the identity is unique, and $-a=(-1)a$.

### Def

1. A nonzero element $a\in R$ is called a `zero divisor` if there is a nonzero element $b\in R$ s.t. either $ab=0$ or $ba=0$.
2. Assume $R$ has an identity $1\neq 0$. An element $u\in R$ is called a unit in $R$ if there is some $v\in R$ s.t. $uv=vu=1$. The set of units in $R$ is denoted $R^\times$.

Observe: A zero divisor can never be a unit.

### Examples

1. $\Z$ has no zero divisors, and its only units are $\pm 1$, i.e., $\Z^\times = \{\pm 1\}$.

2. $\Z/n\Z$, $n\geq 2$. The elements $\bar u$ for which $u$ and $n$ are relatively prime are units. On the other hand, $a$ is no relatively prime to $n$ then $\bar a$ is zero divisor in $\Z/n\Z$. Hence every nonzero element of $\Z/n\Z$ is either a unit or a zero divisor.

3. If $R$ is the ring of all functions from the closed interval $[0,1]$ to $\R$. Then the units of $\R$ are the functions that are not zero for all point (and $f^{-1}={1\over f}$). If $f$ is not a unit and not zero, then $f$ is a zero divisor. Because: define $g$ as
$$
g(x)=\left\{\begin{matrix}0,\quad \text{if } f(x)\neq 0\\ 1,\quad \text{if } f(x)=0 \end{matrix}\right.
$$
then $g$ is not the zero function but $f(x)g(x)=0$ for all $x$.

4. If $R$ is the ring of all `continuous` functions $[0,1]\to\R$. Then the units of $\R$ are still the functions that are not zero at any point, but now, there are functions that are neither units nor zero divisors. For instance, $f(x)=x-\dfrac{1}{2}$ has only one zero (at $x=\dfrac{1}{2}$) so $f$ is not a unit. On the other hand, if $gf=0$ then $g$ must be zero for all $x\neq \dfrac{1}{2}$, and the only `continuous` function with this property is the zero function. Hence $f$ is neither a unit nor a zero divisor. Similarly, no function with only a finite (or countable) number of zeros on $[0,1]$ is a zero divisor. This ring also contains many zero divisors. For instance let
  $$
  f(x)=\left\{\begin{matrix}
    0, &0\leq x\leq 1/2 \\
    x-\frac{1}{2}, &1/2\leq x\leq 1
  \end{matrix} \right.
  $$
and let $g(x)=f(1-x)$. Then $f$ and $g$ are nonzero continuous functions whose product is the zero function.

5. Let $D$ be a rational number that is not a perfect square in $\mathbb Q$ and define
  $$
  \mathbb Q(\sqrt D) = \{a+b\sqrt D\,|\, a,b\in \mathbb Q\}
  $$
  as a subset of $\mathbb C$. This set is clearly closed under subtraction, and the identity $(a+b\sqrt D)(c+d\sqrt D)=(ac+bdD)+(ad+bc)\sqrt D$ shows that it is also closed under multiplication. Hence $\mathbb Q(\sqrt D)$ is a subring of $\mathbb C$. (省略后文，见书 P227)

### Def. Integral Domain

A commutative ring with identity $1\neq 0$ is called an `integral domain` if it has no zero divisors. (Hence, it gives a cancellation property)

### (Cancellation)

Assume $a,b,c$ are elements of any ring with $a$ not a zero divisor. If $ab=ac$, then either $a=0$ or $b=c$ (i.e., if $a\neq 0$ we can cancel the $a$'s). In particular, if $a,b,c$ are any elements in an integral domain, and $ab=ac$, then either $a=0$ or $b=c$.

### Corollary [Field]
Any finite integral domain is a field.

Let $R$ be a finite integral domain and let $a$ be a nonzero element of $R$. By the cancellation law the map $x\mapsto ax$ is an injective function. Since $R$ is finite, this map is also surjective. In particular, there is some $b\in R$ s.t. $ab=1$, i.e., $a$ is a unit in $R$. Since $a$ was an arbitrary nonzero element, $R$ is a field. (Consider $b\mapsto ab=1$, such $b$ exists by isomorphism, since finite)

A remarkable result of Wedderburn is that a finite division ring is necessarily commutative, i.e., is a field.

### Subring

A `subring` of the ring $R$ is a subgroup of $R$ that is closed under multiplcation.

(Also, it is a subgroup under addition)

### Examples
1. $\Z$ is a subring of $\mathbb Q$, $\mathbb Q$ is a subring of $\mathbb R$. The property "is a subring of" is clearly transitive.
2. $2\Z$ is a subring of $\Z$, as is $n\Z$ for any integer $n$. The ring $\Z/n\Z$ is not a subring of $\Z$ for any $n\geq2$.
3. The ring of all `continuous` functions $\R\to\R$ is a subring of the ring of all functions $\R\to\R$. The ring of all differentiable functions $\R\to\R$ is a subring of both.
4. $S=\Z + \Z i + \Z j + \Z k$, the `integral` Quaternions. It forms a subring of either the ral or rational Quaternions. This ring (which is not a division ring) can be used to give proofs for a number of results in number theory.
5. If $R$ is a subring of a field $F$ that contains the identity of $F$, then $R$ is an integral domain. The converse of this is also true, namely, any integral domain is contained in a field.

