# Ring Homomorphisms & Quotient Rings

### Def.
Let $R$ and $S$ be rings.
1. A `ring homomorphism` is a map $\varphi: R\to S$ satisfying
   1. $\varphi(a+b)=\varphi(a)+\varphi(b)$, so $\varphi$ is a group homomorphism on the additive groups.
   2. $\varphi(ab)=\varphi(a)\varphi(b)$

2. The `kernel` denoted $Ker\varphi=\{a\,|\,\varphi(a)=0, a\in R\}$.
   
3. A bijective ring homomorphism is called a `isomorhpism`.

### Examples
1. $\varphi: \Z \to 2\Z$, $Ker\varphi = \{\text{even integers}\}$, The fiber of $\varphi = 1$ is the set of odd integers.

2. For $n\in \Z$, the maps $\varphi_n: \Z\to\Z$ defined by $\varphi_n(x)=nx$ are NOT in general ring homomorphisms because $\varphi_n(xy)=nxy$ whereas $\varphi_n(x)\varphi_n(y)=nxny=n^2xy$. Hence, it is homomorphism only if $n^2=n$, i.e., $n=0,1$. Note that, $\varphi_0$ is zero homomorphism, $\varphi_1$ is identity homomorphism.

3. Let $\varphi: \mathbb Q[x]\to\mathbb Q$, defined by $\varphi(p(x))=p(0)$, i.e., maps to constant term. Then it is homomorphism. And the fiber above $a\in \mathbb Q$ consists of the set of polynomials with $a$ as constant term. In particular, the kernel of $\varphi$ consists of the polynomials with constant term $0$.

### Proposition
Let $R$ and $S$ be rings and let $\varphi: R\to S$ be a homomorphism.

1. The image of $\varphi$ is a subring of $S$.
2. The kernel of $\varphi$ is a subring of $R$.

### Def.
Let $R$ be a ring, let $I$ be a subset of $R$, $r\in R$.

1. $rI=\{ra\,|\,a\in I\}$ and $Ir=\{ar\,|\,a\in I\}$.
2. A subset $I$ of $R$ is a `left ideal` of $R$ if
   1. $I$ is a subring of $R$ (???), and
   2. $I$ is closed under left multiplicaion by elements from $R$, i.e., $rI\subseteq I$ for all $r\in R$.

3. A subset $I$ that is both a left ideal and right ideal is called an `ideal` if $R$.

### Proposition

Let $R$ be a ring and $I$ be an ideal of $R$. Then the (additive) quotient group $R/I$ is a ring under the binary operations:
$$
(r+I)+(s+I)=(r+s)+I\\ (r+I)(s+I)=(rs)+I
$$
for all $r,s\in R$. Conversely, if $I$ is any subrgoup s.t. above are well defined, then $I$ is an ideal of $R$.

### Def. [Quotient Ring]

The operations defined above with the ring $R/I$ is called `quotient ring` of $R$ by $I$.

### Theorem

1. (The First Isomorphism Theorem for Rings) $R/Ker\varphi \cong \varphi(R)$
2. (The Natural Projection) The map $R\to R/I$ defined by $r\to r+I$ is a surjective ring homomorphism with kernel $I$. Thus, every ideal is the kernel of a ring homomorphism and vice versa.

### Examples

Let $R$ be a ring.

1. The subrings $R$ and $\{0\}$ are ideals. An ideal $I$ is proper if $I\neq R$. The ideal $\{0\}$ is called the `trivial ideal` and is denoted by $0$.
2. $n\Z$ is an ideal of $\Z$ for any $n\in\Z$. And these are the only ideals of $\Z$ since in particular these are the only subgroups of $\Z$. The quotient ring is $\Z/n\Z$. The natural projection $\Z\to\Z/n\Z$ is called `reduction mod `$n$.
3. Let $R=\Z[x]$ be the ring of polynomials in $x$ with integer coefficients. Let $I$ be the collection of polynomials whose terms are of degree at least $2$ (i.e., having no terms of degree 0 or 1) together with the zero polynomial. Then $I$ is an ideal. (The sum and product of polynomials again has degree at least 2). Two polynomials $p(x),q(x)$ are in the same coset of $I$ if and only if they differ by a polynomial whose terms are of degree at least 2, i.e., if and only if $p(x)$ and $q(x)$ have the same constant and first degree terms.
   
    For example, $3+5x+x^3+x^5$ and $2+5x-x^4$ are in the same coset of $I$.

    It follows that a complete set of representatives for the quotient $R/I$ is given by the polynomials $a+bx$ of degree at most $1$.


4. Let $A$ be a ring, $X$ be any nonempty set and $R$ be the ring of all functions $X\to A$. For each fixed $c\in X$, the map
$$
E_c : R\to A \text{ defined by } E_c(f)=f(c)
$$
(called `evaluation at` $c$) is a ring homomorphism.

...

### Operations

1. Sum: $I+J$ defined by $\{i+j | i\in I, j\in J\}$
2. Product: $IJ$ defined by $\{ij | i\in I, j\in J\}$

### Examples
1. Let $I=6\Z, J=10\Z$, then $I+J=\{6x+10y|x,y\in \Z\}=2\Z$. $IJ=\{(6x)(10y) | x,y\in \Z\}=60\Z$.

