# Properties of Ideals

### Def. [Generator]

1. Let $(A)$ denote the smallest ideal of $R$ containning a subset $A$, called `the ideal generated by` $A$.
2. $RA=\{\sum r_ia_i | r_i\in R, a_i\in A, i\in \Z^+ \}$, $RA=0$ if $A=\varnothing$.
3. An ideal generated by a single element is called a `principal ideal`.
4. An ideal generated by a finite set is called a `finitely generated ideal`.

Note that
$$
(A)=\bigcap_{I \text{an ideal, } \\ A\subseteq I} I
$$
i.e., $(A)$ is the intersection of all ideals of $R$ that contain the set $A$.

If $R$ is commutative, then
$$
RA=AR=RAR=(A)
$$

The formation of principal ideals in a commutative rings is a particularly simple way of creating ideals, similar to generating cyclic subgroups of a group.

The element $b\in R$ belongs to the ideal $(a)$ if and only if $b=ra$ for some $r\in R$, i.e., if and only if $b$ is a `multiple` of $a$ or, put another way, $a$ `divides` $b$ in $R$. Also, $b\in (a)$ if and only if $(b)\subseteq (a)$. Thus containment relations between ideals, in particular between principal ideals, is seen to capture some of the arithmetic of general commutative rings. Commutative rings in which all ideals are pricipal are among the easiest to study and these will play an important role in next chapters.

### Examples

1. The trivial ideal $0$ and $R$ are both principal: $0=(0)$, $R=(1)$.
2. $(n)=(-n)=n\Z=\Z n$. And the notation for $(m,n)$ as the gcd of $n$ and $m$ is thus consistent with the same notation for the ideal generated by $n$ and $m$. In particular, $n$ and $m$ are relatively prime if and only if $(n,m)=1$.
3. The ideal $(2,x)$ generated by $2$ and $x$ in $\Z[x]$ is NOT a principal ideal. Observe that $(2,x)=\{2p(x)+xq(x)\}$ and so this ideal consists precisely of the polynomials with integer coefficients whose constant term is even, in particular, this is a proper ideal. Assume by way of contradication that $(2,x)=(a(x))$ for some $a(x)\in \Z[x]$. Since $2\in (a(x))$ there must be some $p(x)$ s.t. $2=p(x)a(x)$. The degree of $p(x)a(x)=\text{degree }p(x)+\text{degree }a(x)$, hence both $p(x),a(x)$ must be constant, i.e., integers. Since $2$ is a prime number, $a(x),p(x)\in \{\pm 1, \pm 2\}$. If $a(x)=\pm 1$, then every polynomial would be a multiple of $a(x)$, contrary to $(a(x))$ being a proper ideal. The only possibility is $a(x)=\pm 2$. But now $x\in (a(x))=(2)=(-2)$ and so $x=2q(x)$ for some polynomial $q(x)$ with integer coefficients, clearly impossible. Hence $(2,x)$ is not principal. 参见另一个证明：[https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/36169/show-that-langle-2-x-rangle-is-not-a-principal-ideal-in-mathbb-z-x]
4. If $R$ is the ring of all functions $[0,1]\to\R$, let $M$ be the ideal $\{f | f(1/2)=0\}$ (the kernel of evaluation at $1/2$). Let $g(x)$ be the function which is zero at $x=1/2$ and $1$ at all other points. Then $g=fg$ for all $f\in M$, so $M$ is a principal ideal with generator $g$. In fact, ANY function which is zero at $1/2$ and nonzero at all other points is another generator for the same ideal $M$. (If continuous, then not principal nor is it even finitely generated)
5. If $G$ is a finite group and $R$ is a commutative ring with $1$ then the augmentation ideal is generated by the set $\{g-1|g\in G\}$, although this need not be a minimal set of generators.

### Proposition 
Let $I$ be an ideal of $R$.
1. $I=R$ if and only if $I$ contains a unit.
2. Assume $R$ is commutative. Then $R$ is a field if and only if its only ideals are $0$ and $R$.

### Corollary
If $R$ is a field then any nonzero ring homomorphism from $R$ into another ring is an injection.

Proof. $R/I\cong A$, $I=0$ is required if $R$ is a field.

If $D$ is a ring with identity $1\neq 0$ in which the ideals are $0$ and $D$, then $D$ is a division ring. Conversely, the ideals in a division ring $D$ are $0$ and $D$. However, if $F$ is a field, the two side ideals in $M_n(F)$ are $0$ and $M_n(F)$, even though this is not a division ring.

### Def. [Maximal Ideal]
An ideal $M$ in an arbitrary ring $S$ is called a `maximal ideal` if $M\neq S$ and the only ideals containing $M$ are $M$ and $S$.

### Proposition
In a ring with identity every proper ideal is contained in a maximal ideal.

### Proposition
Assume $R$ is commutative. The ideal $M$ is a maximal ideal if and only if the quotient ring $R/I$ is a field.

Proof. To show $R/M$ is field if and only if the ideals in $R/M$ is $0$ and $R/M$.

This proposition above indicates how to `construct` some fields: take the quotient of any commutative ring $R$ with identity by a maximal ideal in $R$. We shall use this in Part IV to construct all finite fields by taking quotients of the ring $\Z[x]$ by maximal ideals.

### Examples

1. Let $n$ be a nonnegative integer. The ideal $n\Z$ of $\Z$ is a maximal ideal if and only if $\Z/n\Z$ is a field. Hence, if and only if $n$ is a prime number.
2. The ideal $(2,x)$ is a maximal ideal in $\Z[x]$ because its quotient ring is the field $\Z/2\Z$.
3. The ideal $(x)$ in $\Z[x]$ is not a maximal ideal because $(x)\subset (2,x)\subset \Z[x]$. The quotient ring $\Z[x]/(x)$ is isomorphic to $\Z$. Since $\Z$ is not a field, we see again that $(x)$ is not maximal ideal in $\Z[x]$.
4. Let $R$ be the ring of all functions $[0,1]\to \R$, and for each $a\in[0,1]$ let $M_a$ be the kernel of evaluation at $a$. Since evaluation is a surjective homomorphism from $R$ to $\R$, we see that $R/M_a\cong \R$ and hence $M_a$ is maximal.

### Def. [Prime Ideal]
Assume $R$ is commutative. An ideal $P$ is called a `prime ideal` if $P\neq R$ and whenever the product $ab$ of two elements $a,b\in R$ is an element of $P$, then at least one of $a$ and $b$ is an element of $P$. ($ab\in P \implies a\in P \text{ or } b \in P$).

For $\Z$, there is no differnece between the maximal ideals and the nonzero prime ideals. This is not true in general, but we shall see shortly that every maximal ideal is a prime ideal.

### Proposition
Assume $R$ is commutative. Then the ideal $P$ is a prime ideal in $R$ if and only if the quotient ring $R/P$ is an integral domain.

It follows that a commutative ring with identity is an integral domain if and only if $0$ is a prime ideal. ($R= R/0$ is integral domain, then $0$ is prime ideal)

### Corollary
Assume $R$ is commutative. Every maximal ideal of $R$ is a prime ideal.

Proof. If $M$ is maximal, then $R/M$ is a field, hence integral domain, hence $M$ prime.

### Examples
1. The principal ideals generated by primes in $\Z$ are both prime and maximal ideals. The zero ideal in $\Z$ is prime but not maximal ($\Z = \Z/0$ is not a field).
2. The ideal $(x)$ is a prime ideal in $\Z[x]$ since $\Z[x]/(x)\cong \Z$. This ideal is not a maximal ideal. The ideal $0$ is a prime ideal in $\Z[x]$, but is not maximal.

