# The Chinese Remainder Theorem

(Ring commutes and has $1$)

Note that $n\Z + m\Z = (m,n)\Z$, then motivate following:

### Def.
The ideals $A$ and $B$ of the ring $R$ are said to be `comaximal` if $A+B=R$.

Recall: $A=(a),B=(b)\implies AB=(ab)$. More generally, $A_1\cdots A_k = (a_1\cdots a_k)$.

### Theorem [Chinese Remainder Theorem]
Let $A_1,A_2,...,A_k$ be ideals in $R$. The map
$$
R\to R/A_1 \times R/A_2 \times \cdots \times R/A_k
$$
defined by
$$
r \mapsto (r+A_1, r+A_2, ..., r+A_k)
$$
is a ring homomorphism with kernel $A_1\cap A_2\cap\cdots\cap A_k$. If for each $i,j\in \{1,2,...,k\}$ with $i\neq j$ the ideals $A_i$ and $A_j$ are comaximal, then this map is surjective and $A_1\cap A_2\cap\cdots\cap A_k=A_1A_2\cdots A_k$. So
$$
R/(A_1A_2\cdots A_k) = R/(A_1\cap A_2\cap\cdots\cap A_k) \\ \cong R/A_1 \times R/A_2\times \cdots \times R/A_k.
$$

Proof. (归纳法，略)

This theorem obtained its name from the special case $\Z/mn\Z\cong (\Z/m\Z)\times(\Z/n\Z)$ as rings when $m$ and $n$ are relatively prime integers. (...)

### Corollary
Let $n$ be a positive integer and $p_1^{\alpha_1}p_2^{\alpha_2}\cdots p_k^{\alpha_k}$ be its factorization into powers of distinct primes. Then
$$
\Z/n\Z \cong (\Z/p_1^{\alpha_1}\Z)\times(\Z/p_2^{\alpha_2}\Z)\times\cdots\times(\Z/p_k^{\alpha_k}\Z)
$$
as rings. So in particular we have the following isomorphism of ultiplicative groups:
$$
(\Z/n\Z)^\times \cong (\Z/p_1^{\alpha_1}\Z)^\times\times(\Z/p_2^{\alpha_2}\Z)^\times\times\cdots\times(\Z/p_k^{\alpha_k}\Z)^\times
$$
If we compare orders on the two sides of this last isomorphism, we obtain the formula
$$
\varphi(n)=\varphi(p_1^{\alpha_1})\varphi(p_2^{\varphi_2})\cdots \varphi(p_k^{\alpha_k})
$$
for the Euler $\varphi$-function. This is turn implies that $\varphi$ is what in elementary number theory is termed a `multiplicative function`, namely that $\varphi(ab)=\varphi(a)\varphi(b)$ whenever $a$ and $b$ are relatively prime positive integers. The value of $\varphi$ on prime powers $p^\alpha$ is easily seen to be $\varphi(p^\alpha)=p^{\alpha-1}(p-1)$. From this and the multiplicativity of $\varphi$ we obtain its value on all positive integers.

