# Euclidean Domains

### Def. [Norm]

`norm` is a kind of a measure of `size` in integral domain $R$.

Any function $N:R\to \Z^+ \cup \{0\}$ with $N(0)=0$ is called a `norm` on the integral domain $R$. If $N(a)>0$ for $a\neq 0$, define $N$ to be a `positive norm`.

### Def. [Euclidean Domain]
The integral domain $R$ is said to be a `Euclidean Domain` (or possess a `Division Algorithm`) if there is a norm $N$ on $R$ s.t. $\forall a,b\in R$ with $b\neq 0$, there exist elements $q,r\in R$ with 
$$
a=qb+r \qquad \text{with }r=0 \text{ or }N(r)< N(b)
$$
The element $q$ is called the `quotient` and $r$ the `remainder` of the division.

Existence:

The importance of the existence of a Division Algorithm on an integral domain $R$ is that it allows a *Euclidean Algorith,* for two elements $a$ and $b$ of $R$: by successive "divisions" we can write:
$$
\begin{aligned}
a&=q_0b + r_0 \\
b&=q_1r_0 + r_1 \\
r_0&=q_2r_1+r_2 \\
&\cdots\\
r_{n-2}&=q_n r_{n-1}+r_n \\
r_{n-1}&=q_{n+1}r_n
\end{aligned}
$$
where $r_n$ is the last nonzero remainder. Such an $r_n$ exists since $N(b)>N(r_0)>...>N(r_n)$ is a decreasing sequence of nonnegative integers if the remainders are onzero, and such a sequence cannot continue indefinitely. Note also that there is no guarantee that these elements are `unique`.

### Examples
1. Fields are trival examples of Euclidean Domains where any norm will statisfy the defining condition (e.g., $N(a)=0$ for all $a$). This is because for every $a,b$ with $b\neq 0$, we have $a=qb+0$ where $q=ab^{-1}$.
2. The integers $\Z$ are a Euclidean Domain with norm given by $N(a)=|a|$, the usual absolute value. The existence of a Division Algorithm in $\Z$ (the familiar "long division" of elementary arithmetic) is verified as follows. Let $a$ and $b$ be two nonzero integers with $b>0$. The half open intervals $[nb, (n+1)b), n\in \Z$ partition the real line and so $a$ is in one of them, say $a\in [kb,(k+1)b)$. For $q=k$ we have $a-qb=r\in[0,|b|)$ as needed. If $b<0$, similary. Note that if $a$ is not a multiple of $b$, there are always two possibilities for the pair $q,r$: the proof above always produced a positive remainder $r$. For example $5=2\cdot 2+1=3\cdot 2-1$ are the two ways of applying the Division Algorithm in $\Z$ to $a=5,b=2$. The quotient and remainder are unique if we require the remainder to be nonnegative.
3. If $F$ is a field, then the polynomial ring $F[x]$ is a Euclidean Domain with norm given by $N(p(x))=\text{the degree of }p(x)$. The Division Algorithm for polynomials is simply "long division" of polynomials which may be familiar for polynomials with real coefficients.
4. The quadratic integer rings $O$ are integral domains with a norm defined by the absolute value of the field norm, but in general $O$ is not Euclidean with respect to this norm (or any other norm). The Gaussian integers $\Z[i]$ (where $D=-1$), however, are a Euclidean Domain with norm $N(a+bi)=a^2+b^2$.
5. The `discrete valuation ring` (DVR) is a Euclidean Domain with norm $N(0)=0, N=v$. (见下)

### DVR

Let $K$ be a field. A `discrete valuation` on $K$ is a function $v:K^\times \to \Z$ satisfying

1. $v(ab)=v(a)+v(b)$ (i.e., $v$ is a homomorphism from the multiplicative group of nonzero elements of $K$ to $\Z$),
2. $v$ is surjective, and
3. $v(x+y)\geq \min(v(x),v(y))$ for all $x,y\in K^\times$ with $x+y\neq 0$.

The set $\{x\in K^\times | v(x)\geq 0\}\cup \{0\}$ is a subring of $K$ called the `valuation ring` of $v$.

An integral domain $R$ is called a `discrete valuation ring` if there is a valuation $v$ on its field of fractions s.t. $R$ is the valuation ring of $v$.

For example, the ring $R$ of all rational numbers whose denominators are relatively prime to the fixed prime $p\in\Z$ is a discrete valueation ring contained in $\mathbb Q$.

A discrete valuation ring is easily seen to be a Euclidean Domain with norm $N(0)=0,N=v$. This is because for $a,b\in R$ with $b\neq 0$

1. if $N(a)<N(b)$ then $a=0\cdot b+a$, and
2. if $N(a)\geq N(b)$ then it follows from property 1 of discrete valuation that $q=ab^{-1}\in R$, so $a=qb+0$. (Detail: $N(q)=N(ab^{-1})=N(a)+N(b^{-1})=N(a)-N(b)\geq 0$, hence $q$ exists in $R$, and $q=ab^{-1}$ satisfy ED).


The first implication of a Division Algorithm for the integral domain $R$ is that it forces every ideal of $R$ to be principal.

### Proposition

Every ideal in a Euclidean Domain is principal. More precisely, if $I$ is any nonzero ideal in the ED $R$ then $I=(d)$, where $d$ is any nonzero element of $I$ of minimum norm.

Proof. If $I$ is zero, there is nothing to prove. Otherwise, let $d$ be any nonzero element of $I$ of minimum norm (such a $d$ exists since the set $\{N(a)|a\in I\}$ has a minimum element by the Well Ordering of $\Z$). Clearly $(d)\subseteq I$. To show the reverse inclusion, let $a$ be any element of $I$ and use the Division Algorithm to write $a=qd+r$ with $r=0$ or $N(r)< N(d)$. Then $r=a-qd$ and both $a$ and $qd$ are in $I$, hence $r\in I$. By the minimality of the norm of $d$, we see that $r$ must be $0$. Thus $a=qd\in (d)$ showing $I=(d)$.

This proposition shows that every ideal of $\Z$ is principal. This fundamental property of $\Z$ was previously determined from the (additive) group structure of $\Z$, using the classification of the subgroups of cyclic groups. Note that there are really the same proof, since the results in Section 2.3 ultimately relied on the Euclidean Algorithm in $\Z$.

This proposition can also be used to prove that some integral domains $R$ are not ED by proving the existence of ideals of $R$ that are not principal.

### Examples

1. Let $R=\Z[x]$. Since the ideal $(2,x)$ is not principal, it follows that the ring $\Z[x]$ of polynomials with `integer` coefficients is NOT a Euclidean Domain (for any choice of norm), even though the ring $\mathbb Q[x]$ of polynomials with `rational` coefficients is a ED.
2. Let $R$ be the quadratic integer ring $\Z[\sqrt 5]$, let $N$ be the associated field norm $N(a+b\sqrt 5)=a^2+5b^2$ and consider the ideal $I=(3,2+\sqrt{-5})$ generated by $3$ and $2+\sqrt{-5}$. Suppose $I=(a+b\sqrt{-5}),a,b\in \Z$, were principal, i.e., $3=\alpha(a+b\sqrt{-5})$ and $2+\sqrt{-5}=\beta(a+b\sqrt{-5})$ for some $\alpha,\beta\in R$. Taking norms in the first equation gives $9=N(\alpha)(a^2+5b^2)$ and since $a^2+5b^2$ is a positive integer it must be $1,3,9$. If the value is $9$... (省略一万字分类讨论) It follows that $I$ is not a principal ideal and so $R$ is not a ED.

Note: GCD Algorithm is true in any ED.

### Def. [GCD]
Let $R$ be a commutative ring and $a,b\in R$ with $b\neq0$.

1. $a$ is said to be a `multiple` of $b$ if there exists an element $x\in R$ with $a=bx$. In this case $b$ is said to `divide` $a$ or be a `divisor` of $a$, written $b|a$.
2. A `greatest common divisor` of $a$ and $b$ is a nonzero element $d$ s.t.
    1. $d|a$ and $d|b$, and
    2. if $d^\prime | a$ and $d^\prime | b$ then $d^\prime |d$.

A greatest common divisor of $a$ and $b$ will be denoted by $g.c.d.(a,b)$, or simply $(a,b)$.

Note that $b\mid a$ in a ring $R$ if and only if $a\in(b)$ if and only if $(a)\subseteq (b)$. In particular, if $d$ is any divisor of both $a$ and $b$, then $(d)$ must contain both $a$ and $b$ and hence must contain the ideal generated by $a$ and $b$. The defining properties 1 and 2 of a gcd of $a$ and $b$ translated into the language of ideals therefore become (respectively):

if $I$ is the ideal of $R$ generated by $a$ and $b$, then $d$ is a gcd of $a$ and $b$ if
1. $I$ is contained in the principal ideal $(d)$, and
2. if $(d^\prime)$ is any principal ideal containing $I$, then $(d)\subseteq (d^\prime)$.

Thus a gcd of $a$ and $b$ is a generator for the unique smallest principal containing $a$ and $b$. Note that there are rings in which gcd do not exist.

### Proposition
If $a$ and $b$ are nonzero elements in the commutative ring $R$ s.t. the ideal generated by $a$ and $b$ is a principal ideal $(d)$, then $d$ is a gcd of $a$ and $b$.

Hence: The notation $(a,b)$ is often used to denote both the ideal generated by $a$ and $b$, and a gcd of $a$ and $b$.

### Proposition [Uniqueness of GCD]

(略)

One of the most important properties of ED is that gcd always exist and `can be computed algorithmically`.

### Theorem

Let $R$ be a ED, and $a,b\in R$ (both nonzero). Let $d=r_n$ be the last nonzero remainder in the Euclidean Algorithm for $a$ and $b$ described at the beginning of this chapter. Then
1. $d$ is a gcd of $a$ and $b$, and
2. the principal ideal $(d)$ is the ideal generated by $a$ and $b$. In particular, $d$ can be weitten as an *$R$-linear combination* of $a$ and $b$, i.e., there are elements $x$ and $y$ s.t. $d=ax+by$.

