# Principal Ideal Domains

### Def.

A `Principal Ideal Domain` (PID) is an integral domain in which every ideal is principal.

Corollary. ED is PID.

### Examples

1. $\Z$ are a PID. $\Z[x]$ is not a PID since it contains a nonprincipal ideal $(2,x)$.
2. $\Z[\sqrt{-5}]$ is not a PID.

It is not true that PID is ED.

From an ideal-theoretic point of view PID are a natural class of rings to study beyond rings which are fields (where the ideals of fields are just the trivial ones: $(0),(1)$). Many of the properties enjoyed by ED are also satisfied by PID. A significant advantage of ED over PID, however, is that although gcd exist in both settings, in ED one has an `algorithm` for computing them. Thus results which depend on the existence of gcd may often be proved in the larger class of PID although computation of examples are more effectively carried out using a Euclidean Algorithm.

### Proposition
Let $R$ be a PID and $a,b$ be nonzero elements of $R$. Let $d$ be a generator for the principal ideal generated by $a$ and $b$. Then
1. $d$ is a gcd of $a$ and $b$.
2. $d$ can be written as an $R$-linear combination of $a$ and $b$, i.e., $d=ax+by$ for some $x,y\in R$.
3. $d$ is unique up to multiplication by a unit of $R$.

### Proposition

Every nonzero prime ideal in a PID is a maximal ideal.

Proof. Let $(p)$ be a nonzero prime idal in the PID $R$ and let $I=(m)$ be any ideal containing $(p)$. We must show that $I=(p)$ or $I=R$.

Now, $p\in(m)$ so $p=rm$ for some $r\in R$. Since $(p)$ is prime, and $rm\in (p)$, either $r$ or $m$ must lie in $(p)$. If $m\in (p)$ then $(p)=(m)=I$. If $r\in(p)$ write $r=ps$. Then $p=rm=psm\implies sm=1$, hence $m$ is a unit in $R$, then $I=R$.

### Corollary
If $R$ is any commutative ring such that the polynomial ring $R[x]$ is a PID, then $R$ is necessarily a field.

Proof. Assume $R[x]$ is a PID. Since $R$ is a subring of $R[x]$ then $R$ must be an integral domain. The ideal $(x)$ is a nonzero prime ideal in $R[x]$ because $R[x]/(x)$ is isomorphic to $R$. Hence $(x)$ is maximal, hence the quotient is a field.

($R[x]$ is ED, then $(x)$ is prime implies $(x)$ is maximal, hence $R[x]/(x)$ is field, hence $R\cong R[x]/(x)$ is field)

### Def. [Dedekind-Hasse norm]

这是一种PID不是ED的例子的构造

(略)
