# Unique Factorization Domains

Notice:

- Every PID is UFD.

- Every ED is PID.

i.e., $ID\supseteq UFD \supseteq PID \supseteq ED\supseteq Field$

### Def.

Let $R$ be an integral domain.

1. Suppose $r\in R$ is nonzero and is not a unit. Then $r$ is called `irreducible` in $R$ if whenever $r=ab$ with $a,b\in R$, at least one of $a$ or $b$ must be a unit in $R$. Otherwise $r$ is said to be `reducible`.
2. The nonzero element $p\in R$ is called `prime` in $R$ if the ideal $(p)$ generated by $p$ is a prime ideal. In other words, a nonzero element $p$ is a prime if it is not a unit and whenever $p\mid ab$ for any $a,b\in R$, then either $p\mid a$ or $p\mid b$.
3. Two elements $a$ and $b$ of $R$ differing by a unit are said to be `associate` in $R$ (i.e., $a=ub$ for some unit $u\in R$).

(Irreducible: $r=ab\implies$ at least one of $a,b$ in $R^\times$)

(Irreducible: irreducible element $r\implies$ $r=ab$ for some $a,b\in R$)

(Prime: $p=ab\implies$ at least one of $a,b$ in $(p)$)

both $r$ and $p$ are not unit.

### Proposition
In an integral domain, a prime element is always irreducible.

Proof. Let $(p)$ be a nonzero prime ideal in $R$. Let $ab=p$, then $ab\in(p)$, hence $a\in(p)$ or $b\in (p)$. without loss generality, set $a\in(p)$, then $a=pr$ for some $r\in R$. Hence $p=ab=prb\implies rb=1$, hence $b$ is a unit, hence $p$ is irreducible.

Note: It is not true an irreducible element is prime.

If $R$ is a PID, then irreducible and prime are the same.

### Proposition
In a PID, a nonzero element is a prime if and only if it is irreducible.


### Examples

1. $\Z[\sqrt{-5}]$ is not PID, since $3$ is irreducible but not prime.

### Def. [UFD]

A `Unique Factorization Domain` (UFD) is an integral domain $R$ in which every nonzero element $r\in R$ which is not a unit has the following two priperties:

1. $r$ can be written as a finite product of irreducibles $p_i$ of $R$: $r=p_1p_2\cdots p_n$, and
2. the decomposition in 1 is `unique up to associates`.

### Examples
1. A field $F$ is trivially a UFD since every nonzero element is a unit, so there are no elements for which properties 1 and 2 must be verified.
2. As indicated above, we shall prove shortly the every PID is a UFD.
3. Ring $R[x]$ is UFD whenever $R$ itself is a UFD. And $\Z[x]$ is UFD.
4. The subring of the Gaussian integers $R=\Z[2i]$ is an integral domain, but not a UDF. Notice that $4=2\cdot 2=(-2i)(2i)$ are two distinct factorizations in $R$, since $2$ and $2i$ is not `associates` in $R$ (note that $i\notin R$).
5. The quadratic integer ring $\Z[\sqrt{-5}]$ is not UFD.

### Proposition
In a UFD, a nonzero element is a prime if and only if it is irreducible.

(Since UFD is PID, then done.)

But... we show it here more detail:

Since in a integral domain, prime always irreducible, then we show only the reverse part.

Let $p\in R$ be a irreducible element, $R$ a UFD. Then $p\mid ab$ for some $a,b\in R$, we need to show that $p\mid a$ or $p\mid b$. Since $p\mid ab$, then $pc=ab$ for some $c\in R$. Replace $a,b,c$ as their irreducible products, then
$$
pu_cc_1c_2...c_k = a\cdot u_bb_1b_2...b_k
$$
It is unique (proved above). Since $p\mid ab$, which means $p$ is associate to one of the irreducibles in such products, set $a$ as such, then $a=u_ap$, hence
$$
pu_cc_1c_2...c_k = u_apa_1a_2...a_k\cdot u_bb_1b_2...b_k
$$
hence, $p\mid a$, i.e., $a=pd$ with $d=u_aa_1a_2...a_k$.

### Proposition
Let $a,b$ be two nonzero elements of UFD $R$, and suppose
$$
a=u\prod p_i^{e_i}\qquad b=v\prod p_i^{f_i}
$$
are prime factorizations for $a$ and $b$, where $u$ and $v$ are units, the primes $p_1,p_2,...,p_n$ are `distinct` and the exponents $r_i,f_i$ are $\geq 0$. Then the element
$$
d=\prod p_i^{\min(e_i,f_i)}
$$
is a gcd of $a$ and $b$.

### Theorem [ED is PID is UFD]

Every PID is UFD, Every ED is UFD since ED is PID.

### Corollary [Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic]
The integers $\Z$ are a UFD.

## Factorization in the Gaussian Integers

### Lemma
The prime number $p\in\Z$ divides an integer of the form $n^2+1$ if and only if $p=2$ or $p\equiv 1\mod 4$.

